---
layout: post
title:  Seaborn Tutorial
date: 2024-02-06
description: A quick tutorial to get other stat 386 students familiar with using Seaborn  as a data visualization tool.    
image: "/assets/img/logo-wide-lightbg.svg"
display_image: true  # change this to true to display the image below the banner 
---

## Introduction

Opportunities in fields related to machine learning, data science, and statistics have grown immensely in recent years, and as students learning how to operate in this realm, it is important to be aware of all the tools available to you. A huge aspect of working in one of the fields listed, is data interpretation, and having the ability to communicate our findings to other career professionals. In order to do both of these jobs effectively, we will need certain tools to help us. One of the leading packages in Python for data visualization and manipulation is Seaborn.


## What Can We Do With Seaborn?

* Data Pre-Processing
* Data Visualization

While there are numerous ways to use Seaborn to gather useful information from data, I have the most experience in using it to create data visualizations, so this blog will go into more detail about using features related to those kinds of applications. 

## Data Visualization Tools in Seaborn

There are 17 built-in datasets that are available to use when importing Seaborn. The `sns.get_dataset_names()` function lists all the possible datasets one can choose from. For the content in this blog, I will be using the `tips` dataset, which provides information on tip amounts given `total_bill` amount ($), `sex` (M or F), `smoker` status, `day`, `time`, and party `size`. 

{%- highlight python -%}
import pandas as pd
import seaborn as sns

tips = sns.load_dataset("tips")
{%- endhighlight -%}

#### Boxplots, Histograms, and Scatter-plots

To look at a graphical representation of the distribution of certain variables in a dataset, we can use boxplots. In Seaborn, the `.boxplot()` function allows us to to do this.

{%- highlight python -%}
sns.boxplot(x = "size", y = "tip", data = tips)
{%- endhighlight -%}


